---
    title: The Humans
    creator: Matt Haig
    date-completed: 2017-01-04
    date-published: 2017-01-05
    rating:
        score: 2.5
        date: 2019-12-12
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/1851659353
    isbn: 9780062657299

---

:::meta
<time datetime="2019-12-12">Updated December 12, 2019</time>
This rating is my best attempt to convert my Goodreads rating (4 stars) and my written review to the -5|5 scale.
:::

---

## Review

I finished another book today! The Humans by Matt Haig is about about a subtle alien invasion, where the Vanadorians inflitrate our society in order to hide evidence of a mathematical breakthrough that will change our lives.

There were a couple things that I loved about this book quite a bit. First, the humor was quite entertaining. Since the alien has never encountered human civilization before, he must quickly learn about the strange society, with all our defects and inconsistencies. Matt’s Haig’s commentary on our civilization is amusing while providing a fresh perspective on our lives. This perspective is what kept me engaged throughout the story. He describes our lives as what an outsider would perceive, in clever ways that highlight the issues on this planet.

I was also quite emotionally involved in the book, growing a connection to this alien as he begins to believe that humans are actually worth saving. My stomach was a knot when I realized he was about to cheat on his wife, and I was overjoyed when his son told him that his wife wanted him back.

Now the flaws are quite condemning. How well you’ll receive this book depends on your ability to ignore them. The first of this is scientific inaccuracies. I don’t find it quite believable that the entire progress of our civilization is bottlenecked by our inability to understand prime numbers (But what do I know). Furthermore, the science behind the alien biology is qute iffy. Whatever, I can put this aside, but it prevents me from recommending books to many others who I don’t thing can (Scott)

Next are inconsistencies with the aliens and our professor, alien Andrew Martin. First, this mission ended up way too difficult than is plausible for a species that is able to teleport , read minds, and communicate using telepathy. There were so many points early in the book where I found ridiculous that Andrew was unable to understand certain concepts. We were told that he had the ability to understand the whole human language from an entire sentence, yet there’s many concepts he can’t understand. Some random things he finds it necessary to contemplate, while others come to him with ease.

The other characters in the book were quite stereotypical. The angsty teenage boy and the middle-aged wife who suppressed her dream of becoming an author. This is mildly forgivable, since there wasn’t much space for in-depth character development (which I wouldn’t want to sacrifice more of Andrew for, anyway).

I *almost* got through the entire book ignoring all these flaws, but the buzzfeed-esque 93-things-you-can-do-for-a-better-life list that Andrew writes for his son was the cherry on top. I rolled my eyes when I got to this chapter.

Anyways, the book was still quite interesting, and emotionally compelling (for me) so I gave it 4 stars on GoodReads anyway lol

---

## Notes

(can be found on my OneNote account)