---

    title: "Homo Deus: A History of Tomorrow"
    creator: Yuval Noah Harari
    date-completed: 2017-10-14
    date-published: 2017-10-14
    rating:
        score: 4.5
        date: 2019-12-12
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2163006134
    isbn: 9780062657299
    audiobook: true

---

:::meta
<time datetime="2019-12-12">Updated December 12, 2019</time>
This rating is my best attempt to convert my Goodreads rating (4 stars) and my written review to the -5|5 scale.
:::

---

## Facebook Post
[<time datetime="2017-12-19T10:17:00">Posted December 12, 2019</time>](https://www.facebook.com/earljman/posts/1740410579305425)

Weird book to recommend on fb and I'm really not well-read enough to be recommending non-fiction in the first place, but I think this book is gonna stick with me for a while (even if I don't agree with everything in here).

If you can't stop thinking about the mess that society is and don't even know how to properly place your thoughts... maybe this will help.

---

## Review

I'm really having a hard time rating this book. Undoubtedly, this book has expanded my mind in a way that will have a lasting impact on my opinions and life in general. I'm probably even going to buy a print version just for a place to write some notes in. For me, the value in this book lies in its resolution of the seeming discord between science and religion. On the other hand, I wouldn't give the argument itself 5 stars in its entirety. There's some places, especially towards the end, where his conclusions seem unreasonable. Well... I guess I'll base my rating on what this book means to me.

---

## Notes

<time datetime="2017-10-14">10% completed</time> 
> Terrorists are like a fly that tries to destroy a china shop. the fly is so weak that it cannot budge even a single teacup. So, it finds a bull, gets inside its ear, and starts buzzing... Islamic fundamentalists could never have toppled Hussein by themselves. Instead, they enraged the US by the 9/11 attacks, and the US destroyed the middle eastern china shop for them.

<time datetime="2017-12-04">60% completed</time> 
> The Egyptians believed that only prayers to the living God Pharoah could save the Nile valley from devastating floods and droughts. They were right... When millions of people believed in Pharoah and therefore cooperated to build dams and dig canals, floods and droughts became rare.