---

    title: The Way of Kings
    creator: Brandon Sanderson
    date-completed: 2017-08-04
    date-published: 2017-08-04
    rating:
        score: 4.5
        date: 2019-12-12
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2082870808
    series:
        title: The Stormlight Archive
        number: 1
        link: https://www.goodreads.com/series/49075-the-stormlight-archive

---

## Notes

<time datetime="2017-06-11">7% completed</time> wtf this book is so fkn long

<time datetime="">24% completed</time>

> I once saw a spindly man carrying a stone larger than his head upon his back, the passage went. He stumbled beneath the weight, shirtless under the sun, wearing only a loincloth. He tottered down a busy thoroughfare. People made way for him. Not because they sympathized with him, but because they feared the momentum of his steps. You dare not impede one such as this.
> 
> The monarch is like this man, stumbling along, the weight of a kingdom on his shoulders. Many give way before him, but so few are willing to step in and help carry the stone. They do not wish to attach themselves to the work, lest they condemn themselves to a life full of extra burdens."

<time datetime="">28% completed</time>

Dalinar, who lost his wife, on the idea of marrying Jasnah &mdash;

> They thought he rejected their suggestions [to marry Jasnah] because of love for his first wife. They didn't know that she was gone, vanished from his mind, a blank patch of fog in his memory. Though, in a way, his officers were right. He hesitated to remarry because he hated the idea of replacing her.  He’d had everything of his wife taken from him. All that remained was the hole,and filling it to gain a scribe seemed callous.


<time datetime="2017-12-04">34% completed</time>

> “Teft rolled his eyes. “You think I’m scared of a lumbering chull like you? I’ll go if I want to, and—”
> 
> “Teft,” Kaladin said softly. “We need you.”
> 
> **Need. That word had strange effects on men. Some ran when you used it. Others grew nervous. Teft seemed to long for it.** He nodded, muttering to himself, but stayed with them as they went on.”

<time datetime="2017-12-04">36% completed</time>

> “Those you can understand,” his mother said calmly. “You burn a glyphward out in front of your house, and it will turn away evil. It’s easy. Your father won’t give someone a ward to heal them. He’ll insist that they stay in bed, drinking water, taking some foul medicine, and washing their wound each day. It’s hard. They’d rather leave it all to fate.”
> 
> Kal considered that. “I think they hate him because he fails too often.”
> 
> “There is that. If a glyphward fails, you can blame it on the will of the Almighty. If your father fails, then it’s his fault. Or such is the perception.”

<time datetime="2017-12-03">41% completed</time>

> The book spoke of a king carrying the burdens of his people. It said that those who led were the lowest of men, for they were required to serve everyone.

<time datetime="2017-12-03">78% completed</time> Oh man this book is good

<time datetime="2017-12-04">100% completed</time>

Last lines of the book &mdash;

> Then, reverently, [the assassin] folded the list. He was surprised that his hands were so steady. He should be trembling.
> 
> For soon the world itself would shake.
