---

title: Slaughterhouse-Five
creator: Kurt Vonnegut
date-completed: 2017-08-16
date-started: 2017-07-05
date-published: 2017-08-16
rating:
        score: 2
        date: 2019-12-12
link: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2050138269
isbn: 978-0812988529

---

### Blue and Ivory (according to SparkNotes)

<time datetime="2019-12-12T23:06">Posted March 17, 2018</time>

> On various occasions in Slaughterhouse-Five, Billy’s bare feet are described as being blue and ivory, as when Billy writes a letter in his basement in the cold and when he waits for the flying saucer to kidnap him. These cold, corpselike hues suggest the fragility of the thin membrane between life and death, between worldly and otherworldly experience.

mm ok I didn't get it until I read [this blog post](http://farnworthaplang.blogspot.com/2012/07/chapter-6-blue-and-ivory.html)

> According to SparkNotes, the phrase "blue and ivory" is used to represent the thin membrane between life and death. This is when it made sense to me. These blue and ivory feet appeared on both Billy and the corpse of the hobo, allowing the reader to make the connection: the corpse is dead and Billy is alive; yet, they share the same physical feature, making them closer in bodily state than what is thought. Vonnegut is trying to show the reader that life and death are not as separated as people may think. 

eh bit of a stretch. still feel kinda meh about it

    :::meta
    Regarding the score I added today&mdash;I don't think it would have been the score I'd have given when I finished it a couple years ago. It was rated 3 stars on Goodreads and I think I'd give it a 1 on my scale. It was so all over the place that I had trouble digesting some of the interesting parts of the work. It doesn't help that he treats the "insightful" sentences like you'd expect, littering them whimsically throughout the story. In any case, upon going through my notes, I think this book has more to offer me than I was able to appreciate the first time around, so I'm bumping the score up to a 2.
    :::

---

## Review

Maybe the topic of the meaninglessness/inevitability/necessity of death has been so common in the media that I consume nowadays, that it's preventing me from finding too much value in this book.. There's definitely some interesting stuff going on, but I think the book's still a little bit overrated. My favorite thing and least favorite about the book is the Tralfamadorian structure. It's beautiful, but somehow, at the same time, makes the book more boring, since you know everything that's going to happen in the plot...... idk how much sense that made but w/e

---

## Book Notes

<time> 8% completed </time>

> And war will look just wonderful, so we’ll have a lot more of them. And they’ll be fought by babies like the babies upstairs.”

<time> 9% completed </time>

> Mackay told us that the Children’s Crusade started in 1213, when two monks got the idea of raising armies of children in Germany and France, and selling them in North Africa as slaves. Thirty thousand children volunteered, thinking they were going

<time> 9% completed </time>

> English-reading public

lol

<time> 10% completed </time>

> Von der Kuppel der Frauenkirche sah ich diese leidigen Trümmer zwischen die schöne städtische Ordnung hineingesät; da rühmte mir der Küster die Kunst des Baumeisters, welcher Kirche und Kuppel auf einen so unerwünschten Fall schon eingerichtet

<time> 11% completed </time>

> There was nothing I could do about it. As an Earthling, I had to believe whatever clocks said—and calendars.

<time> 12% completed </time>

> This one is a failure, and had to be, since it was written by a pillar of salt.

<time> 12% completed </time>

> Listen: Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time. It ends like this: Poo-tee-weet?

<time> 13% completed </time>

> All moments, past, present, and future, always have existed, always will exist.

<time> 14% completed </time>

> It is just an illusion here on Earth that one moment follows another one, like beads on a string, and that once a moment is gone, it is gone forever.

<time> 14% completed </time>

> Now, when I myself hear that somebody is dead, I simply shrug and say what the Tralfamadorians say about dead people, which is "so it goes.”

<time> 16% completed </time>

> Billy was preposterous—six feet and three inches tall.

lol

<time> 16% completed </time>

> He looked like a filthy flamingo.

<time> 17% completed </time>

> The gun made a ripping sound like the opening of the zipper on the fly of God Almighty.

<time> 17% completed </time>

> It swiveled its 88-millimeter snout around sniffingly,


<time> 21% completed </time>

> Little Billy was terrified, because his father had said Billy was going to learn to swim by the method of sink-or-swim. His father was going to throw Billy into the deep end, and Billy was going to damn well swim. It was like an execution.

<time> 21% completed </time>

> He dimly sensed that somebody was rescuing him. Billy resented that.

<time> 22% completed </time>

> “How did I get so old?”

<time> 22% completed </time>

> The man had been a famous marathon runner in his day. So it goes.

Interesting use of "so it goes"

<time> 23% completed </time>

> Billy had never seen Weary's face. He had tried to imagine it one time, had imagined a toad in a fishbowl.

<time> 24% completed </time>

> And they ditched Weary and Billy in the creek-bed.

lmao

<time> 26% completed </time>

> Billy stared into the patina of the corporal’s boots, saw Adam and Eve in the golden depths. They were naked. They were so innocent, so vulnerable, so eager to behave decently. Billy Pilgrim loved them.

hmm

<time> 28% completed </time>

> The photographer wanted something more lively, though, a picture of an actual capture. So the guards staged one for him. They threw Billy into shrubbery. When Billy came out of the shrubbery, his face wreathed in goofy good will, they menaced him with their machine pistols, as though they were capturing him then.

<time> 29% completed </time>

> Billy had a framed prayer on his office wall which expressed his method for keeping going, even though he was unenthusiastic about living.

Interesting use of "so it goes"

<time> 30% completed </time>

> There used to be a dog named Spot, but he died. So it goes. Billy had liked Spot a lot, and Spot had liked him.

Billy's a simple guy. Really makes his complicated life a lot more unbearable. Especially for me.

<time> 30% completed </time>

> Tears came instead. They seeped. Billy turned on the Magic Fingers, and he was jiggled as he wept.

wut

<time> 31% completed </time>

> The reserves were violent, windburned, bristly men. They had teeth like piano keys. They were festooned with machine-gun belts, smoked cigars and guzzled booze. They took wolfish bites from sausages, patted their horny palms with potato-masher grenades.

jeez.. were they that diffedrent from american soldiers

<time> 31% completed </time>

> stingingly exciting.

<time> 32% completed </time>

> This was a man who had lost an entire regiment, about forty-five hundred men—a lot

holy shit...

<time> 34% completed </time>

> To the guards who walked up and down outside, each car became a single organism which ate and drank and excreted through its ventilators. It talked or sometimes yelled through its ventilators, too. In went water and loaves of blackbread and sausage and cheese, and out came shit and piss and language.

<time> 34% completed </time>

> When food came in, the human beings were quiet and trusting and beautiful. They shared.

<time> 35% completed </time>

> Its label boasted that it contained no nourishment whatsoever.

<time> 35% completed </time>

> It didn’t make a pop. The champagne was dead. So it goes.

<time> 35% completed </time>

> When the bombers got back to their base, the steel cylinders were taken from the racks and shipped back to the United States of America, where factories were operating night and day, dismantling the cylinders, separating the dangerous contents into minerals. Touchingly, it was mainly women who did this work. The minerals were then shipped to specialists in remote areas. It was their business to put them into the ground, to hide them cleverly, so they would never hurt anybody ever again...

woah this is cool

<time> 36% completed </time>

> blue and ivory feet

this is the second time this was used. I don't understand

<time> 36% completed </time>

> The saucer was one hundred feet in diameter, with portholes around its rim. The light from the portholes was a pulsing purple. The only noise it made was the owl song. It came down to hover over Billy, and to enclose him in a cylinder of pulsing purple light.

The most casual setup to an alien abduction ever.

<time> 38% completed </time>

> Billy coughed when the door was opened, and when he coughed he shit thin gruel. This was in accordance with the Third Law of Motion according to Sir Isaac Newton. This law tells us that for every action there is a reaction and opposite in direction.
> 
> This can be useful in rocketry.

the fuk

<time> 39% completed </time>

> Somewhere a dog barked. With the help of fear and echoes and winter silences, that dog had a voice like a big bronze gong.

<time> 40% completed </time>

> Their penises were shriveled and their balls were retracted. Reproduction was not the main business of the evening.

lol wut

<time> 40% completed </time>

> An unseen hand turned a master valve. Out of the showerheads gushed scalding rain. The rain was a blowtorch that did not warm. It jazzed and jangled Billy’s skin without thawing the ice in the marrow of his long bones.

<time> 41% completed </time>

> I’ve visited thirty-one inhabited planets in the universe, and I have studied reports on one hundred more. Only on Earth is there any talk of free will.”

<time> 42% completed </time>

Description of a Tralfamadorian novel:

> What we love in our books are the depths of many marvelous moments seen all at one time.”

<time> 44% completed </time>

> Light leaped out through the door, escaped from prison at 186,000 miles per second.

<time> 44% completed </time>

> They were adored by the Germans, who thought they were exactly what Englishmen ought to be. They made war look stylish and reasonable, and fun.

<time> 45% completed </time>

> The British had no way of knowing it, but the candles and the soap were made from the fat of rendered Jews and Gypsies and fairies and communists, and other enemies of the State.

<time> 45% completed </time>

> Billy Pilgrim was on fire, having stood too close to the glowing stove. The hem of his little coat was burning. It was a quiet, patient sort of fire—like the burning of punk. Billy wondered if there was a telephone somewhere. He wanted to call his mother, to tell her he was alive and well.

<time> 47% completed </time>

> They were female giraffes—cream and lemon yellow. They had horns like doorknobs. The knobs were covered with velvet. Why?

<time> 47% completed </time>

> They had both found life meaningless, partly because of what they had seen in war.

<time> 47% completed </time>

> Rosewater, for instance, had shot a fourteen-year-old fireman, mistaking him for a German

<time> 48% completed </time>

> He said that everything there was to know about life was in The Brothers Karamazov, by Feodor Dostoevsky. “But that isn’t enough any more,” said Rosewater.

<time> 48% completed </time>

> Another time Billy heard Rosewater say to a psychiatrist, “I think you guys are going to have to come up with a lot of wonderful new lies, or people just aren’t going to want to go on living.

<time> 48% completed </time>

> She made him feel embarrassed and ungrateful and weak because she had gone to so much trouble to give him life, and to keep that life going, and Billy didn’t really like life at all.

<time> 49% completed </time>

> It was about people, whose mental diseases couldn’t be treated because the causes of the diseases were all in the fourth dimension, and three-dimensional Earthling doctors couldn’t see those causes at all, or even imagine them. One thing Trout said that Rosewater liked very much was that there really were vampires and were-wolves and goblins and angels and so on, but that they were in the fourth dimension. So was William Blake, Rosewater’s favorite poet, according to Trout. So were heaven and hell.wolves and goblins and angels and so on, but that they were in the fourth dimension. So was William Blake, Rosewater’s favorite poet, according to Trout. So were heaven and hell.