---

    title:  Watchmen
    creator: Alan Moore
    date-completed: 2017-08-10
    date-started: 2017-07-10
    date-published: 2017-08-10
    rating:
        score: 4
        date: 2019-12-12
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2055548514
    isbn: 978-0930289232
    graphic-novel: true

---

:::meta
I have pictures of some of my favorite panels somewhere (probably OneNote), but I'll hold off on that for now. (Delete this when they're added in)
:::

---

## Quotes

> It is the oldest ironies that are still the most satisfying: man, when preparing for bloody war, will orate loudly and most eloquently in the name of peace.”

> Heard joke once: Man goes to doctor. Says he's depressed. Says life seems harsh and cruel. Says he feels all alone in a threatening world where what lies ahead is vague and uncertain. Doctor says, "Treatment is simple. Great clown Pagliacci is in town tonight. Go and see him. That should pick you up." Man bursts into tears. Says, "But doctor...I am Pagliacci.” 

> “We gaze continually at the world and it grows dull in our perceptions. Yet seen from another's vantage point, as if new, it may still take the breath away.” 

> “Nothing ends, Adrian. Nothing ever ends.” 

> “I sat on the bed. I looked at the Rorschach blot. I tried to make it look like a spreading tree, shadows pooled beneath it, but it didn't. It looked more like a dead cat I once found, the fat, glistening grubs writhing blindly, squirming over each other, frantically tunneling away from the light. But even that isn't the real horror. The horror is this: in the end, it is simply a picture of empty meaningless blackness.” 

> “Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? - Who watches the watchmen?” 

> “The Rudderless World is not shaped by vague metaphysical Forces. It is not God who kills the Children. Not Fate that butchers them or Destiny that feeds them to the Dogs. ... It´s us. Only us.” 

---

## Review

Amazing graphic novel. Characters are so much more complex and interesting than I would have thought possible in 400 pages. 

---