---

title: Gunslinger
creator: Stephen King
date-completed: 2017-06-23
date-started: 2017-01-22
date-published: 2017-06-28
rating:
        score: .5
        date: 2017-06-28
link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43615.The_Gunslinger
isbn: 978-0930289232
series:
    title: The Dark Tower
    number: 1
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/series/40750-the-dark-tower
audiobook: true

---

## Review

First caveat: I consumed about 95% of this novel in audio-form. The main issue with that is that the point of audio-books is to be able to consume them while doing chores, running, or some other activity. I had a lot of difficulty with doing chores and understanding Stephen Kings intense writing style at the same time. Sometimes he’s explaining the landscape or someones clothes, and I occasionally tune out for a bit… but then he just seamlessly transitions to a bit of character development, and I don’t realize until like 5 seconds later. OR, he randomly says something about a character’s history with 0 context (the context may come in a later sentence) and I end up rewinding to see if I missed anything. I eventually got tired of this and just let the story move on, rather than rewinding back 30 seconds to check if I missed anything.

So… yeah. I’m aware that if I read the book rather than listened to it, I would have given it maybe a 1 or 2? BUT, that’s if I got through the entire book. I like audiobooks because they give me much much more time to read. This is probably my 4th attempt at getting through a Stephen King novel. They just take too much effort, sometimes, for me to want to sit down and read. (I tried to read The Stand twice, and this book once before). It’s because things move more slowly then what I’m used to, and I read them really slowly because I want to appreciate all it has to offer. I then end up getting quickly getting bored of whatever’s happening in the plot because it takes me so long to get through it.

Anyways, it’s really the audiobook that can be credited with pulling me through the novel, so I don’t regret it.
Okay those were the main things I wanted to talk about. Like I said, this guy is a phenomenal author. I’ve never read descriptions like his, before, whether it’s on landscape, facial expressions, or atmosphere (not weather). He somehow says more in a couple sentences than Tolkien can say in a couple paragraphs haha.

Anyways I’d say in this book that the plot was somewhat… sprawling? This opinion is what I sort of mean when I say that I’ll probably just need to grow up and get used to reading this type of fantasy, where my craving for action isn’t fulfilled as quickly, if I’m to get through the famous fantasy epics. I think the sprawling-ness of this plot, if you will, was quite intentional. I mean.. the first, famous, sentence of the story is “The man in black fled accross the desert, and the gunslinger followed.” Like… it’s not like I didn’t know what I was getting myself into lmao. Anyways, I didn’t like it so much, now, but hopefully I can develop the attention span to like it more in the future.

The gunslinger was, of course, an amazing character. Maybe one of the most interesting I’ve ever read. Not meant to be likeable, in the slightest, but more… comforting I guess. Like, you’re not really going to feel worried about him cuz you don’t like him, but you can sort of be assured that he’ll get you through some intense adventures.
The end definitely throws you for a loop (that was annoyingly spoiled by the trailer for the new movie) (FUCK I was trying to see how many books the movie covered and ran into more spoilers haha). The loop was quite welcome. I wasn’t sure how much more entertainment this desert held, for me.

---

### Book Notes

<time> 50% completed </time> Don't enjoy the book too much and I'd usually stop by now, but I don't have any other audiobook atm so guess I'm sticking it through

<time> 70% completed </time> god this ending better be good

---