---

title: The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy 
creator: Stephen King
date-completed: 2017-06-08
date-started: 2017-06-01
date-published: 2017-06-11
rating:
        score: 3
        date: 2017-06-11
link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43615.The_Gunslinger
isbn: 978-0930289232
series:
    title: Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
    book-number: 1
    link: https://www.goodreads.com/series/40957-hitchhiker-s-guide-to-the-galaxy
audiobook: true

---

## Review

> “The aircar rocketed them at speeds in excess of R17 through the steel tunnels that led out on to the appalling surface of the planet which was now in the grip of yet another drear morning twilight. Ghastly gray light congealed on the land.
> 
> R is a velocity measure, defined as a reasonable speed of travel that is consistent with health, mental well-being and not being more than, say, five minutes late. It is therefore clearly an almost infinitely variable figure according to circumstances, since the first two factors vary not only with speed taken as an absolute, but also with awareness of the third factor. Unless handled with tranquility this equation can result in considerable stress, ulcers and even death.
>
> R17 is not a fixed velocity, but it is clearly far too fast.”

The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams is not nearly what I was expecting from one of the most referenced books I’ve never read. It’s odd… not too dissimilar from Rick and Morty or Futurama. The main difference is that the jokes can be set up over several paragraphs or even pages, and I found myself enjoying that more and more throughout the book.

I’m curious if Douglas Adams spent lots of time thinking about the perfect way to set up his scenarios, or he just wrote whatever came to mind. I’d assume the latter, but wouldn’t be surprised of either. Some of the scenarios are so ridiculous, it’s worth reading just to marvel at the creativity of the guy. That and Adams’ everything’s-a-joke writing style makes this book such a unique experience. No wonder it’s been praised for decades now.

LMFAO I just realized Stephen Fry was the narrator for this audiobook, no wonder I enjoyed it so much. Too bad he’s not narrating the rest of the series. BUT Martin Freeman (Bilbo) is the narrator for the the other 4 books, so I’m excited to listen to them nevertheless. The audiobook is great for car rides and runs, since it takes a good amount of concentration to get the jokes, so you don’t get bored without the visual stimulation of tv shows. I’ll definitely be finishing this series eventually.