---

    title: Perks of Being a Wallflower
    creator: Stephen Chbosky
    date-completed: 2017-05-24
    date-published: 2017-05-23
    rating:
        score:
        date:
    link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Perks_of_Being_a_Wallflower_(film)

---

    ::: meta
    <time datetime="2019-12-13T15:26">Updated December 13, 2019</time>
    Re-reading my initial review, I'm having a hard time figuring out what I would have scored this. That review seems have a slight taste of naivety, but I may be misreading it and I actually just thought the movie was too boring to spend any time on the review. It also be my poor writing skills lol.
    
    Whatever it was, I'd like to think that I've matured socially since then, so I wonder if I'd get a better impression the next time around.
    :::

---

I wasn’t a huge fan of Perks of Being a Wallflower. It was good, not great. The twist at the end saved it for me, but the beginning wasn’t hugely successful in keeping me entertained and engaged. There was some stellar acting, but without the background knowledge of the boy, I was unable to sympathize with him. I guess this is what makes the movie good (?), however, and I might enjoy watching a second time much more. The whole idea behind the movie, it seems, is that you don’t understand what may have gone on in the life of that one weird kid at school. It’s so easy to throw them under the bus, then all of a sudden you realize that they were abused at home. I think that’s what the movie was trying to aim for you to feel.

There were a few good performances. The gay guy was by far the best, being the comic relief and the most energetic one of the bunch. Emma Watson was mediocre, and I have not seen a performance from her, outside of Harry Potter, that I’ve enjoyed. She’s hella pretty though.

I had a hard time understanding the relationships in this movie, really. Mostly cuz I couldn’t connect with many of the characters. The movie did seem to portray a somewhat accurate high school? Well, not quite. Fights are broken up within a minute, usually. Especially if it was in a cafeteria.

Ya this movie was aight.