---

    title: Hateful Eight
    creator: Quentin Tarantino
    date-completed: 2016-01-05
    date-published: 2016-01-29
    rating:
        score: 1.5
        date: 2016-01-29
    link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hateful_Eight

---

## Best Performances

8. Joe Gage (Michael Madsen)

7. Bob (Demian Bichir)

6. John Ruth (Kurt Russell) – This one probably deserves an explanation. I guess I just didn’t buy it. His performance and all. It seemed like one that could be given by any amateur with a rough voice and enough facial hair. Though I guess Tarantino didn’t need Russell to be anything but what the audience expected him to be. Also, maybe it wouldn’t make sense for every single character to have such unique, dramatic personalities and Tarantino wanted this character to be the type that the audience would expect from a Western. Either way, John Ruth just seems like a cocky, lame sort of dude that had his death coming.

5. General Sandy Smithers (Bruce Dern)

4. Sheriff Chris Mannix (Waltor Goggins)

3. Oswaldo Mobray (Tim Roth) – As the actor that contributed most to his character, Tim Roth definitely had fun turning this character into something unexpected. The lines of the Hangman were definitely nothing notable, and his story was not very interesting, but thats why its amazing that his character is one of the most memorable. It is this performance as well as the next two that stand out from the rest.

2. Major Marquis Warren (Samuel L. Jackson) – I loved seeing Samuel L. Jackson back in a role that didn’t involve him in an eyepatch, bossing superheroes around. It’s a good reminder of what he’s capable of as an actor. He was brimming with confidence in this role, and every line was perfectly delivered in his steady, unwavering tone that he has perfected throughout the years.

1. Daisy Domergue (Jennifer Jason Leigh) – Definitely the most enticing character to watch. Whenever she’s on screen she easily captures your attention and keeps you entertained. It’s no wonder why Tarantino spent so much screen time on this woman’s face. Frankly, if Jennifer Jason Leigh didn’t give this type of performance while the plot was centered around her character, the movie may not have been worth watching.