---

    title: Mockingjay
    creator:
    date-completed: 2015-11-26
    date-published: 2015-11-26
    rating:
        score: .5
        date: 2015-11-26
    link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hunger_Games:_Mockingjay_%E2%80%93_Part_2
    series:
        title: The Hunger Games
        number: 4
        link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hunger_Games_(film_series)

---

## Review

Mockingjay – Part 2 is the final movie in The Hunger Games series, based off the popular trilogy written by Suzanne Collins. The movie, though action packed and (somewhat) entertaining, had a long way to go to make up for the insipidity of Part 1. To be honest, I don’t really know what I was expecting from this movie. These books were one of the most thrilling series’ to read in middle school, and I had also just (earlier today) watched the first part of the movie. So, I knew the story I guess, but somehow I hoped that the movie would give us a little bit more to be excited about.

The most blatant flaw in this movie (and the first part as well) is the ridiculous extent to which they waste your time. Clearly the decision to break up this movie was $$$, which is ridiculous. The third book clearly just didn’t have enough material to fit two 2-hour long films. I guess what I was hoping for was another Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (crazy, I know). There are countless scenes where the script writers feel like they are deliberately wasting your time. And the worst part is, none of the action even made up for it.

I can think of one point in the film where I was totally engrossed in the action, which is after the Capitol released the mutts underground to hunt the clan as they move through the sewer system. Otherwise, everything felt like a battle from the original Starwars trilogy (especially with the stormtrooper-esque peacekeeper attire). Everything, just felt so fake. I mean, I understand that there’s a large teen and preteen audience here, but Katniss already fights with a freakin bow and arrow, at least try to make it look less like play time.

However, despite her weapon, the films saving grace was the surprisingly impressive performance of Jennifer Lawrence. I’ve been against her from the start. From only the trailers of the first movie: The Hunger Games, it was clear that her and Josh Hutcherson would likely cause me to shudder and look away every time they were given a moderately dramatic line. For the first movie, that’s exactly what happened, which is what makes it impressive how much Lawrence has clearly grown since then. Except for a couple lines here and there, she nails her performance, even the lines that we would cringe at reading on the physical script itself. (any good movie critic would post an example, but I let you down. sorry.)

The storytelling in this movie was bad, and there’s just no way around it. This was all just teamwork by the movie makers with their decision to cut the film in half and Suzanne Collins poor decisions with her characters (take a lesson from J.K. Rowling, pls). Three examples where the film goes wrong: Useless characters were overdeveloped and important characters were killed off about as fast as we could blink; By the time President Coin was walking up to her platform, the audience was ready to kill her on their own with the amount of time spent foreshadowing it; and the ending is awkward and forced, partly because Collins forced an ending with a stupid love triangle where everybody lives.

Katniss should have died. Seriously. and like, early too. After she shoots Coin.

Okay I’m giving a lot of hate, I know, but it wasn’t thaaaaaat bad. I was moderately entertained (for about 80 of the 137 minutes). The story and the world is just so interesting that you love to see it conclude how it did (purely in a plot-oriented point of view). There were decent performances by Woody Harrelson, Josh Hutcherson (also improved), and Donald Sutherland, and I place a lot of value in the performance of the lead role.

With this in mind, i give this film a (generous): .5