---

    title: Joker
    creator: Todd Phillips
    date-completed: 2019-10-19T16:40
    date-published: 2019-12-13T16:14
    rating:
        score: 5
        date: 2019-12-13T16:14
    link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joker_(2019_film)

---

## Joker isn't a Film about Mental Illness, it's a Film about Empathy (incomplete)

    :::meta
    I had high, high hopes for this article. And perhaps that's why it's been 2 months and is still incomplete. I have a lot to say, and not only that, I believe I have a perspective that's important to share. Needless to say, I'm feeling all sorts of self-inflicted pressure to make this a great article. I still haven't given up on it, but I really do need to get it together since the emotion I that was fueling my message is quickly disappating. These are the notes on what I have so far.
    :::

### Dictation 1

I think most of us make the mistake of thinking that this movie is mainly about Arthur Fleck and his disability--but, it's really not. Yeah, he's the focal point, the main character, but this movie is not so much about his disability.

When you think about it, they don't spend that much time on what his disability actually is. They don't talk about how or why he was in a mental facility at some point. They don't talk about what the causes of his illness are or if there's any other symptoms. They don't even bother naming his actual disability.[^1]  When he gets hit with a burst of laughter, he's supposed to hand out a card to the people he bothers, and that's all we know.

So, we really can't say this movie was about his disability. Yeah it's about Arthur's life, but more specifically, it's about how people treated him. 

Throughout the whole film, you can see how the producers choose to emphasize the expressions of others. Everytime Arthur's in a fit of laughter, the camera immediately pans to the nearest bystander. We're forced to watch their discomfort. I would go even further to say that the plot of the movie has nothing to do with his laughter at all. He doesn't hate himself or his disability, as far as we know. He doesn't feel any sort of regret or discomfort. All things considered, he's the most optimistic person in the whole damn story.

The only time that Arthur mentions how he feels about his mental disability is in his journal, where he writes: "the worst part about having a mental illness is people expect you to behave as if you don't." There's nothing here about laughing. It's about how he's treated.

### Dictation 2

We don't often think about about why somebody became criminal.

For example, when you hear about a shooting, what's the first questions you ask? 

Maybe you ask about how many people they killed *How old were they? What's their race? How'd they do it?*

Nobody asks: *What were their parents like?* or *How did other people treat them?*

We do this because we don't want it to seem like we're defending a person who's ruined the lives of so many others. Of course not. Criminals hurt people, and the last thing we want to do is give them a scapegoat. We want to make sure they're held responsible--and perhaps, from a darker point of view--maybe we don't want to admit that the way we act could cause this to happen.

### Dictation 3

Here I'm gonna sneak in a little bit of controversy.

If you've followed the buzz, you know that not everybody likes this movie. It's undoubtedly a work of art--Astounding production, top-notch performances, a beautiful soundtrack--but perhaps, it doesn't do us any good. It doesn't do us any good to hype a movie like this. Perhaps this is the type of movie that could push an unstable citizen off the edge. Maybe it provides some justification for the actions of a murderer that need not be justified. 

Not to get too sidetracked: this is what good art does. It calls into question our behaviors. It makes us uncomfortable and forces to think. 

*How can treating someone poorly turn them into a monster?*

### Dictation 4

However, I think in our discomfort, it's easy to miss the point.{-- I made the point earlier that this movie isn't about Arthur's mental illness, it's about how he was treated--that doesn't change here--}. 

People are saying that this movie could justify joker's actions, but it's not's any less obvious than before that Joker's a criminal. He's more popular, sure, but nobody's saying that it's okay Arthur Fleck killed those men. Nothing in the movie is suggesting he's a good person. Nobody's watching him stab and stab his coworker, thinking *He's definitely the good guy.* Whether you're mentally disabled or not, the Joker is the *worst* case scenario of what could have happened to Arthur Fleck.

So, if we can push past this discussion that nobody was ever really interested in, maybe we can actually talk about how he's treated. If we'd be okay with having a society that treats their mentally disabled like Arthur was treated. Nobody wants to have that conversation. Nobody wants to think about how their insensitivity might help ruin someone's life.

I know it's getting kinda heavy, but I wanna push this conversation just a little bit further. I'll do it with caution, but... what if he wasn't clinically disabled? Now I don't expect us to babysit every single citizen, but is there something we could do to make sure that nobody feels as helpless or lost as the ___? Is there some ideal amount of personal care we can push towards?

### Dictation 5

Is the Joker a good person? No. As shitty as his life was, I don't think the Joker is a good person. I think that's a fundamentally different question than *Who's responsible for what Arthur Fleck turned into?*

To bring up those who are "mentally unstable"--their shitty situation hasn't gotten any worse because of this movie. But maybe now, we have better shot at helping make it better.

[We don't often want to be seen as defending someone ]

**From the other draft:**

    **We don't often think about how treating people differently can turn them into criminals.**

    But now this movie has confronted us with a question we weren't ready for. If our society treated an mentally unstable disabled person like Arthur was treated, should we be more okay with what he turned into? 

    Well obviously, no—but, maybe it's not so obvious anymore. If it was obvious that Joker was a villain, so many (cite sources) people 

    wouldn't feel the need to bring up how this movie "(add quote from a source) could influence mentally abused people to become violent." Jokers a villain, whether you're disabled or not. Obviously. 

    Now that we've set that straight, we can talk about a perhaps more fruitful topic. Is it okay how society treated him? Well (IMO) this q as obvious as the last. No. So how do we act in a way to make sure this doesn't happen to anyone. How do build a world that's more empathetic to others, disabled or not.





[^1]: Arthur's illness is called Pseudobulbar Affect, btw.