---

    title: The Golden Rule isn't Good Enough
    date-published: 2019-12-16T17:42
    date-created: 2016-06-10T08:30
    tags:
        - religion
        - ethics
    category:
        - experience

---

    Do to others as you would have them do to you.
    - Luke 6:31

Throughout my childhood, this quote was pretty much ingrained as the fundamental guideline of respecting others. But it seems that as an adult in this capitalist society, the quote has taken a whole different meaning.

As it is now, I have the impression that this has become a quote of fairness, of sorts. As in, act towards others so that you can expect that they will act the same way towards you. In a world that runs on cash and has occupations serving every function from creating our food to cleaning our streets, we see this idea as an acceptable rule for public decency, when in reality it should be the very bottom guideline of treating others with fairness. As I see it, the golden rule is becoming more of an excuse to ignore the well-being of others, as long as their actions are justified by other standards.

So the easy example of this is the case where somebody dropped something in a supermarket and left it there because it’s not his or her job to pick it up. This is an asshole thing to do right? By certain standards it’s somewhat justifiable, but it doesn’t change the fact that the person could have taken two seconds to make somebody else’s day easier.

How many people see the golden rule is that you do a favor so that you can expect one in the future.

So I’m not much of a religious person, but I was raised in a Catholic home and grew up very close to the church. The context of this quote is Jesus preaching to his disciples to “love your enemies.” The quote is about love for others, whether or not they deserve it, not about your own self gain through giving someone else help.

Treat others as you would like to be treated, not because that’s the fair thing to do, but because you care.
