---

    title: Be Deliberate in your Distractions
    date: 2019-12-16T15:47
    date-created: 2016-03-29T22:45
    tags:
        - productivity
    category:
        - action

---

I want to write again about distractions.

On a college campus, they’re everywhere. It’s ridiculous how easy for me to wake up in the morning, walk out the door, and come back having done zero productive things at 8pm with a midterm to study for and a problem set to finish. And again, there’s your phone, right on top of it all, stealing every moment that your brain is unoccupied and filling it with useless junk until you can find something else to distract yourself with.

Sure, that’s not the case for most people. Being in college, most of us understand that starting homework at 8pm every day is unsustainable, but we still sometimes get ourselves stuck. We put ourselves in difficult positions, positions that require us to pull from our limited pool of motivation just to get up from dooting around on our phones on our friend’s couch.

I hated doing this. It’s a chore to fend off everything that looks more enticing than a piece of paper with greek letters and occasional numbers on it (my CHBE problem set). So I changed my mindset. Every time I get on my phone, or go to a common hangout spot it’s on purpose. (Yes, I know it seems obvious, but I can tell that many find it difficult, in practice)

There’s ways to avoid distractions, such as silencing your phone when your working, or doing work in obscure locations, but the easiest thing to focus on is making sure you want to be doing whatever you’re doing. Every time you’re in your phone, or lounging at your friends place, be fully aware that you’re wasting your time. Whether or not you think it’s worth it, it’s your call.

I guess an important component to this is that you need feel ok with wasting your time. Don’t laugh this off. None of us can expect to live a fruitful life buried in work every waking hour, especially when there are so many things begging for our attention. Knowing when its okay to be distracted and whether or not it will affect your work is something we can all benefit from.
