---

    title: Old Opinions on Delete Uber Movement
    date-created: 2017-01-29T10:38
    date: 2019-12-16T17:11
    tags:
        - politics
    category:
        - action

---

:::meta 
<time datetime="2019-12-16T17:11"> December 16, 2019 </time> 
This whole thread started with an old [facebook post](https://www.facebook.com/earljman/posts/1401662803180206), and while it really makes me cringe reading through this (and the other related posts) again, I think there's some stuff I can learn. Interestingly, while I can barely force myself to read through it, it seemed like there was an overall positive outcome from saying how I felt&mdash;if, at the very least, to move the conversation forward.
:::

## Original Post

<time datetime="2017-01-29T10:38"> January 29, 2017 </time>

If you havent heard, there is a delete Uber movement. As I understand it, Uber continued to offer transport at JFK airport where protesters are currently rallying against Trump’s immigration ban, while the New York Taxi Workers Alliance has decided to support the rally, refusing to offer their services between 6-7pm. Now deleteuber is a trending hashtag on twitter. THIS IS RIDICULOUS.

FIRST, Uber is first and foremost a business. They provide us a service that makes our lives better, irrespective of our religion, race, or POLITICAL VIEWPOINT, just as companies should. Do you think that the executive board at Uber is responsible for monitoring every protest and deciding whether they should stop their business because of some angry people? NO. I would HATE it if companies started doing it. They are continuing to provide their helpful service DESPITE this flare of emotions. Is this really something our society should be against?

SECOND, I’m seeing in news articles that Uber is being “accused” of “collaborating with the new US president.” WTF is that? Since when is working with a government leader an accusation? People, I understand that you hate the guy, but HE IS OUR PRESIDENT. The way I see it, there is only two ways to deal with his idiocy. We can collaborate with him, or we can start a war. I know that (almost) none of you want the latter, so why do we condemn any effort to work with him? This wishy-washy ground of yelling at him through the media and the news clearly isn’t doing anything because HE DOESNT GIVE A SHIT.

We need to work towards real solutions. Deleteuber is not one.
Sorry if my fb posts are starting to annoy you. (Hypocritically, perhaps,) I have yet to find a way to make myself actually useful.

---

## Later That Day
<time datetime="2017-01-29T19:55"> January 29, 2017 </time>

https://techcrunch.com/2017/01/29/elon-musk-seeks-specific-amendments-to-recommend-to-trump-on-immigration-order/?fbclid=IwAR0pq7l5fg6AUGY3MzZzI1O3Ef0Yi0KdKDGiHHQAhnH67zN5Rc53Ai37F6E

Among those seeking real solutions to the problems that we're currently facing. I find it likely that this is the game Uber is trying to play.

---

## Next Day
<time datetime="2017-01-29T10:38"> January 29, 2017 </time>

While I realized that my post yesterday was me overreacting to everybody else overreacting, my sentiment remains the same. Deleteuber is a movement that pursues no goals. The criticism of the company remains either 1) they made profit off the protests in JFK airport and 2) they are part of Trump’s economic advisory team. In the first case, Uber continuing their business (which I’m certain benefitted the protest groups in as many cases as it impeded them) is simply not enough to receive the hatred they have been receiving. In fact, Just as Elon Musk and the CEO of Walt Disney is expected to do, Uber has the potential to be the voice of reason among Trump’s advisors, pushing the country in the direction of better transportation, lowering pollution and traffic and increasing American productivity. These pursuits must still allowed to move forward so that we may hope to achieve some level of progress among this insanity.
However there IS still value in boycotting companies that earn the Trump family money. The value may be small in significance, but it does exist, as the Trump brand may be the only real thing the guy cares about. If you’re serious about it, ***https://grabyourwallet.org/*** lists all the retailers that sell Trump family products and do business with him. I have no idea how much of a personal impact this can make on Trump’s family, but I sure it will make more of a positive impact then putting a taxi company out of business.

:::meta
<time datetime="2019-12-16T17:11"> December 16, 2019 </time>
While this post feels just as cringe as the last, it's what helped me bring myself to reblog the whole thing. I guess my self-awareness surprised me:

<blockquote>
While I realized that my post yesterday was me overreacting to everybody else overreacting, my sentiment remains the same.
</blockquote>
:::

