---

    title: Trump 
    date-published: 2019-12-16T17:32
    date-created: 2015-12-09T04:42
    tags:
        - politics
    category:
        - experience

---

    :::meta
    <time datetime="2019-12-16T17:34"> December 16, 2019 </time>
    Hm guess this aged pretty well
    :::

So Donald Trump is all over everything nowadays. I saw this on Facebook earlier:

    Honestly I have to agree with trump Muslims that r not us citizens shouldn’t be allowed in r country in a time like this – Bryan

A couple thoughts: First, it’s funny how effective Trump’s campaign is. Because of his extreme idiocy, he doesn’t really to do much to get what he needs: media time. All he needs to do is yell something stupid in front of a crowd and it will be over the news. Next, because he so far on the right, he will pick up all the fucktards from the extreme right side of the scale to the super super extreme right side of the scale. Imagine it like a light wavelength spectrum. Reasonable opinion lies on the visible scale. Trump is at infrared. He’s outside of it. The thing is every time somebody in the visible wavelength hears about his bullshit and spreads it, all the radar and radio and tv wavelengths, all the people with opinions so shitty they don’t even talk about it, hop on his dick because its the closest they’ll ever come to a political leader with matching opinions. So as the media spreads it, all the extremists find another hated opinion to believe in. That’s why Trump isn’t going away anytime soon. Maybe that was a stupid metaphor lol.
